The marketing mix and the four
P’s are the most popular concepts
and models.
I’m sure they sound like you, although in
many cases it doesn’t sound, but we
really don’t know very well what it consists
of, we don’t know how to use them.
Let us look at it from three
perspectives.
One, when it is used.
What is the marketing mix?
Finally, let’s look at why
we consider it a useful
tool.
Let’s start with point one,
when it is used.
Well, let’s go back to the marketing
strategy process, to the strategic
process.
And as you know, the first thing
we have to do is identify who we
are going to address.
How do we do it?
Segmenting the market, identifying
what our targets are, analyzing
those targets more
deeply through the customer
person.
We already know who we are going to be addressing,
and we also already know how they are.
We need to understand your
needs, problems, etc.
The first step is always
the customer.
Then, what we have to do is
determine how we will target
that customer segment.
We have two levels.
We have a more strategic level,
which is positioning, in which
it englows different components,
as we saw, since
differentiation, brand positioning,
where we want to be.
This is a more strategic analysis.
So, let’s go to the marketing
mix.
Marketing mix is the set of tactics
or tools that will allow us
to put the strategy
into practice, in action.
So, let’s make a definition.
Marketing mix is the set of
tools or tactics available
to the marketing manager
or marketing department
to the goals of
the plan.
Everything else is more strategic,
but when we get to the last
part, the marketing mix, well,
because it’s the tactics
we can act on.
Let us go to the next point.
I would like to know what
this marketing mix is.
The first thing I want you to
consider is that it is a mix,
it is a set of factors.
Within the marketing mix, we
can define different models.
The most famous of all, what we
have on screen, are the 4 P's,
which is product, price, promotion
and distribution.
But I want you to know that there
are others.
It has evolved from 4 P's to
7 P's.
It has evolved from the 4 P’s, as
we will see later, to the 4 C’s, which
is a more client-centric approach.
What I want you to understand
is that it is a set
of factors.
It is a set of factors
on which we can act
to marketing goals
and that we need to know
are interrelated.
This is key.
When we define a marketing
plan, we have to consider all
the factors in an integral way,
because they all relate
to each other.
If we make a change in the price,
it will have to have certain
repercussions, well, on the
product, on the communication,
on the distribution
channel, etc.
All of these factors are
interrelated and the marketing
mix is the set of them.
Why do we consider
marketing mix to be
a tool we should know?
Well, we must know it because, among
other things, because it is a subject
almost of general culture and all professionals
who have something to do with
business administration because
they should know what the marketing
mix is.
But in addition, entering a
little more practical terrain,
the marketing mix that brings us
is a model, a structure that helps
us think.
And you will understand.
Imagine that we ask you to make
a marketing plan.
Marketing is very broad.
A marketing plan includes
many things, many concepts.
Well, because the marketing mix,
the four P’s, for example, a model
like the four P’s so simple,
helps us to structure our plan.
It helps us not to leave anything
in the way.
The same thing if I tell you to
analyze the marketing plan of any
company, Coca-Cola.
Where do you start?
It is complicated.
Well, because knowing models like the
marketing mix and integrating them
into our way of thinking allows
us to structure.
As we have said, we will not
lose anything.